---
title: Auth0 manual configuration
type: docs
---

# Auth0 manual configuration

This folder contains configuration and rules for Auth0, which are crucial for the application to work successfully.

## Main application

Create an application of type **Single Page Application**. You can name it any way you want, but `Hereditas` is probably a good name.

Once the app is created, take note of the **Domain** and the **Client ID**. We will not need the Client Secret.

### Application configuration

Ensure that the application is configured with:

- **Application type**: Should be "Single Page Application"
- **Allowed callback URLs**: List of URLs (one per line) where your app is available
- **JWT Expiration**: Recommended to set it to a value that make sense for you, for example 1800 seconds (30 mins)

Under **Advanced Settings**, then **OAuth**:

- **JsonWebToken Signature Algorithm**: Should be "RS256"
- **OIDC Conformant**: Should be enabled.

### Application `client_metadata`

The application needs to be configured with the following `client_metadata`:

- **`hereditas`**: this is required and must be set to `1`.
- **`requestTime`**: set this value to `0`. When users that are not owners sign in, this value is updated with the current time.
- **`waitTime`**: the amount of time, in seconds, to wait before Auth0 can return to users the app token. Set this value to whatever makes sense for you; `86400` (1 day) is often a good amount of time.

## API access

In order to grant API access to the Auth0 rules, create a new application of type **Machine to Machine App**. You can choose a name; a good value could be `Auth0 rules`.

In the next dialog, grant access to the "Auth0 Management API", then select the `update:clients` scope.

Once the app is created, take note of the **Client ID** and **Client Secret**.

## Rules

The `rules` folder contains the rules that need to be configured in Auth0. Make sure you respect the order, as this is very important!

- **Hereditas 01 - Whitelist email addresses (`01-whitelist.js`)**: This rule configures which users are allowed to authenticate, by looking at their email address.
- **Hereditas 02 - Notify (`02-notify.js`)**: This rule sends a notification of all successful logins via a Webhook.
- **Hereditas 03 - Wait logic (`03-wait-logic.js`)**: This rule implements the "wait logic". If a non-owner signs in, starts the timer, and after the wait adds the app token to the claim. If an owner signs in, the timer is reset (and the app token is added to the claim regardless).

The scripts above contain a certain templates that need to be replaced with the list of email addresses of all users or just owners.

- **`/*%OWNERS%*/`** This template needs to be replaced with the array of all email addresses of users who are owners.
- **`/*%ALL_USERS%*/`** This template needs to be replaced with the array of all email addresses of all users.

For example:

````js
const whitelist = /*%ALL_USERS%*/;
const owners = /*%OWNERS%*/;
// Become
const whitelist = ['me@example.com', 'spouse@example.com'];
const owners = ['me@example.com'];
````

In the rules page, add the following settings:

- **`APP_TOKEN`**: the app token, part of the encryption key, as generated by Hereditas. Combined with the user passphrase, lets Hereditas obtain the full key for decrypting data.
- **`AUTH0_CLIENT_ID`**: Set this to the Client ID of the API Access app.
- **`AUTH0_CLIENT_SECRET`**: Set this to the Client Secret of the API Access app.
- **`WEBHOOK_URL`**: URL of the Webhook invoked when a new authentication is successful (see below).

## Notification Webhook

As the Owner, you'll want to be notified when someone signs into Hereditas, to potentially block unauthorized attempts. We are using Webhooks for this, which are just POST requests to an external HTTPS endpoint (make sure you use HTTPS and not HTTP!).

Hereditas sends a Webhook to the URL you provide, as a POST request with the following JSON body:

````json
{
    "value1": "email address of user, e.g. user@example.com",
    "value": "role, either owner or user"
}
````

### Using IFTTT

You can point the Webhook to whatever service you'd like to use. A good option is IFTTT: after enabling the Webhook service, you'll get a private key. The URL you need to use it:

````text
https://maker.ifttt.com/trigger/{event}/with/key/{key}
````

Replace `{event}` with an event name (e.g. `hereditas_auth`) and `{key}` with your IFTTT Webhook key (so messages are sent to yourself). For example:

````text
https://maker.ifttt.com/trigger/hereditas_auth/with/key/123abc456def
````

You can then configure your IFTTT applet to perform any action as a consequence of this. For example, you could send yourself an email, a message on Telegram, or a notification on Slack (or turn the lights red in your home, etc!).

If you send yourself a message, you can write whatever body you prefer. As example:

````text
New Hereditas login on {{OccurredAt}}. User: {{Value1}} (role: {{Value2}})
````
